= Making the `MeshConvert` utility and using it to help produce scalable mesh loading =

=== What it's for ===

When you run Chaste on large clusters or supercomputers the part of the simulation that might
scale least well is the initial mesh load.  
 * Traditional mesh files come in ASCII format with a variable amount of characters per line.  
 * Because random access into ASCII files is difficult each process must spool through unwanted lines
 * This means each file is read in its entirety by all processes causing file contention
 
This page shows you how to convert from a given 3D mesh format (Tetgen/Memfem/CARP/VTK) to 
our special binary version of the Triangle/Tetgen format.
 * This allows for random access when running in parallel
 * This also produces a "node connectivity list" {{{(.ncl)}}} file which is a map from node indices
 to containing element indices.  The presence of this file cuts the calculation cost at mesh load time.
 * If a Chaste format fibre file (.axi or .ortho) is associated with the mesh then this will also be converted to our binary format.

=== Running the converter ===

You may want to download and save the attached file [attachment:MeshConvert.tgz MeshConvert.tgz] and 
unpack the files for testing purposes. Either use an Archive Manager to extract the content to disk or save it and then unpack it with
{{{
#!sh
tar xvfz  MeshConvert.tgz
}}}

These files are just test ASCII mesh data.  Run the converter like so:
{{{
#!sh
./apps/src/MeshConvert MeshConvert/simple_cube
}}}

The argument {{{MeshConvert/simple_cube}}} should be the full relative path to the place where you unpacked the
mesh files.  Note that no suffix is given.  If you have compiled with VTK enabled then you will be able to 
convert a single {{{.vtu}}} file into a binary-format file.

You will see the usual Chaste Copyright notice and information about the compilation details followed by:
{{{
...
Note: for VTK reading, give the full file path (including '.vtu' extension)
Opening simple_cube mesh file(s).
Writing  simple_cube_bin.node etc. mesh file in [PATH_TO_OUTPUT]
Done.
}}}

You can control the location of the folder for the output using {{{$CHASTE_TEST_OUTPUT}}}:  The space 
labelled {{{[PATH_TO_OUTPUT]}}} in the above will be taken from the environmental variable
{{{$CHASTE_TEST_OUTPUT}}}, if it is set, but will be {{{./testoutput}}} otherwise.
{{{
ls ./testoutput
simple_cube_bin.axi  simple_cube_bin.ele  simple_cube_bin.face  simple_cube_bin.ncl  simple_cube_bin.node
}}}

=== Running in parallel ===

If you run the program in parallel then the original mesh is loaded (in a non-scalable way) and then
partitioned before writing back out.  This means that the original node ordering may be permuted.
The advantage to pre-processing by running this converter in parallel (on {{{n}}} processes) is that 
mesh partitioning may be faster when the Chaste code is run live (also on {{{n}}} processes).
