= 3D on a realistic cardiac geometry =

=== Getting the data ===

Download and save the attached file [attachment:Propagation3d.tgz Propagation3d.tgz].
Either use an Archive Manager to extract the content to disk or save it and then unpack it with
{{{
#!sh
tar xvfz  Propagation3d.tgz
}}}

=== Running the simulation ===

Change directory to {{{Propagation3d}}}
{{{
#!sh
cd Propagation3d
}}}

In this folder you will find the following files:
 * `ChasteParameters.xml` -- this file describes the simulation, and can be used to override the [//docs/HeartConfigDefaults_8hpp.html default parameter values] (in releases of the executable up to and including version 2.0, the default parameters were read in from another xml file, `ChasteDefaults.xml`).
 * `ChasteParameters_2_1.xsd` -- XML schema for input validation (in general never has to be altered or touched).

Run the simulation by doing
{{{
<path_to_chaste>/Chaste.sh ChasteParameters.xml
}}}
'''Note:''' in releases up to and including version 2.0, the executable would be called directly (ie: `<path_to_chaste>/Chaste ChasteParameters.xml`), in release 2.1 the executable should be called via the shell script `Chaste.sh`; as above.

A folder called `testoutput` will appear once the simulation has finished.

=== Visualising the results ===

Move into the newly created output folder
{{{
#!sh
cd testoutput/ChasteResults
}}}

In this folder you will find the following files and folders:
 * `progress_status.txt`  -- this file can be viewed whilst the simulation is running to gauge how long it will take
 * `3dResults.h5` -- the output of the simulation, in HDF5 format
 * `output` (folder) -- contains the output converted into Meshalyzer format
 * `cmgui_output` (folder) -- contains the output converted into CMGUI format
 * `vtk_output` (folder) -- contains the output converted into Paraview (VTK) format

There are more details on visualising your results at ChasteGuides/VisualisationGuides.

=== Visualising with Meshalyzer ===
For Meshalyzer visualisation, now move into the Meshalyzer-compatible output folder 
{{{
#!sh
cd output
}}}
Launch Meshalyzer with
{{{
<path_to_meshalyzer>/meshalyzer 3dResults_mesh
}}}
and visualise the results by loading the `3dResults_V.dat` file.

=== Visualising with Cmgui ===
For Cmgui visualisation, now move into the Cmgui-compatible output folder 
{{{
#!sh
cd cmgui_output
}}}
Launch the cmgui visualiser with
{{{
<path_to_cmgui>/cmgui script.com
}}}
The script will ensure that all the time-step files are loaded into Cmgui.

=== Visualising the VTK data with Paraview ===
For Paraview visualisation, now move into the VTK output folder 
{{{
#!sh
cd vtk_output
}}}

For easy animation of cardiac simulations, we have written a Python script to add Paraview-specific
time annotation features to the standard VTK output.  Run this with
{{{
<path_to_Chaste>/python/utils/AddVtuTimeAnnotations.py 3dResults.vtu 3dResultsAnnotated.vtu
}}}

Launch Paraview with
{{{
#!sh
paraview --data=3dResultsAnnotated.vtu
}}}

=== Understanding the XML parameters file ===

Open `ChasteParameters.xml` (it is sensible to do this in a web-browser or XML editor in order to get syntax highlighting).
The file should be reasonably readable; it defines: 
 * a 3D simulation that lasts for 5ms
 * the use of the monodomain model 
   * to use bidomain, the only thing that needs to be done is to change `Mono` to `Bi`
 * a `LuoRudyIBackwardEuler` cell model as the default cell model
 * a 3D mesh generated from an anatomical geometry. The are three files defining the mesh `OxfordRabbitHeart_482um`(`.node`, `.ele`, `.face`) representing respectively nodes elements and faces files.
 * an axisymmetric orientation of the fibres is used and is given in the file `OxfordRabbitHeart_482um.axi` where the longitudinal direction of the fibres is defined in each element.
 * a stimulated region  is defined in the apex. It starts at the beginning of the simulation and its duration is 2ms.
 * output directory and filenames
 * an `OutputVisualizer` element giving which visualiser formats to write
 * physiological parameters: conductivities, capacitance, surface-area-to-volume ratio
   * in monodomain problems, the defined intracellular conductivity is used, '''not''' a harmonic mean of intra and extracellular conductivities. 
 * Numerical parameters including ODE, PDE and printing timesteps
