= Running a simulation of a spiral wave in 2d mesh =

=== Getting the data ===

Download and save the attached file [attachment:S1S2Protocol.tgz S1S2Protocol.tgz].
Either use an Archive Manager to extract the content to disk or save it and then unpack it with
{{{
#!sh
tar xvfz  S1S2Protocol.tgz
}}}

=== Running the simulation ===

Change directory to {{{S1S2Protocol}}}
{{{
#!sh
cd S1S2Protocol
}}}

In this folder you will find the following files:
 * `ChasteParameters.xml` -- this file describes the simulation, and can be used to override the [//docs/HeartConfigDefaults_8hpp.html default parameter values] (in releases of the executable up to and including version 2.0, the default parameters were read in from another xml file, `ChasteDefaults.xml`).
 * `ChasteParameters_2_1.xsd` -- XML schema for input validation (in general never has to be altered or touched).

Run the simulation by doing
{{{
<path_to_chaste>/Chaste.sh ChasteParameters.xml
}}}
'''Note:''' in releases up to and including version 2.0, the executable would be called directly (ie: `<path_to_chaste>/Chaste ChasteParameters.xml`), in release 2.1 the executable should be called via the shell script `Chaste.sh`; as above.

A folder called `testoutput` will appear once the simulation has finished.

=== Visualising the results ===

Move into the newly created output folder
{{{
#!sh
cd testoutput/ChasteResults
}}}

In this folder you will find the following files and folders:
 * `progress_status.txt`  -- this file can be viewed whilst the simulation is running to gauge how long it will take
 * `S1S2Results.h5` -- the output of the simulation, in HDF5 format
 * `output` (folder) -- contains the output converted into meshalyzer format

Move now into the Meshalyzer-compatible output folder 
{{{
#!sh
cd output
}}}
Launch Meshalyzer with
{{{
<path_to_meshalyzer>/meshalyzer S1S2Results_mesh
}}}
and visualise the results by loading the `S1S2Results_V.dat` file

There are more details on visualising your results at ChasteGuides/VisualisationGuides.

=== Understanding the XML parameters file ===

Open `ChasteParameters.xml` (it is sensible to do this in a web-browser or XML editor in order to get syntax highlighting). The file should be reasonably readable; it defines: 
 * a 2D simulation that lasts for 1000ms
 * the use of the monodomain model 
   * to use bidomain, the only thing that needs to be done is to change `Mono` to `Bi`
 * a `FaberRudy2000` cell model as the default cell model
 * a 2D autogenerated mesh of size 4cm by 6cm with a space step of 1mm
 * Two stimulated regions:
   * a stimulated region a long the y-axis for x less than 1mm. It starts at the beginning of the simulation and its duration is 2ms.
   * a rectangular stimulated region defined by the corners (0.0, 0.0) and (2.0, 4.5). It starts at time 255ms and its duration is 2ms.
   * note: in the `Cuboid` definition, the z coordinate is ignored in 2D simulations
 * output directory and filenames
 * physiological parameters: conductivities, capacitance, surface-area-to-volume ratio
   * in monodomain problems, the defined intracellular conductivity is used '''not''' a harmonic mean. The extracellular conductivity is therefore ignored, as are the components in normal directions since this is a 2D simulation.
 * Numerical parameters including ODE, PDE and printing timesteps
   * Note: 'KSP' stands for Krylov subspace and just refers to solvers of linear systems (a [http://www.mcs.anl.gov/petsc/ PETSc] acronym)
 